##Eating on $12 a Week##
**Posted Thu, 12 Jul 2012 08:21:00**

Since I moved down to Lexington for my internship with Lexmark, I've been living by myself in an apartment where several other interns are staying. It's different not having a meal plan like I did while living in the Purdue dorms last semester, and after my first week here where I ate out all the time I quickly realized I needed to learn how to cook.

Thing is I don't particularly enjoy cooking. Not one bit really. Especially when you're just cooking for yourself and not others. I think's it's just creepy and unnatural to eat alone. So since I don't like cooking, won't be cooking for others, and probably would end up skipping meals before I cooked a serious meal I have decided to conduct a small experiment. I'm trying to see how little money I can spend on groceries and still have a full belly when I go to bed.

Last week I spent $12 on groceries. I already had bread, peanut butter and jelly, and some meatballs so I ended up only buying ramen, carrots, and baloney. For lunch each day I had a baloney sandwich with carrots and after work I ate ramen or spaghetti and meatballs. Since enjoying good food without others to enjoy it with is really a let down (I'm not a foodie or anything like that I guess), I didn't mind getting sick of the taste or textures of my meals. In fact I almost found a beauty in the efficiency of what I was doing. I was optimizing the time and resources I spent on nourishment.

This is a seriously mechanistic statement I made above. However, I think forcing myself to eat on $12 a week made me think about what my spending habits said about my personality and values. By spending only $12 a week on groceries, I chose to purchase bland food riddled with preservatives. Sustainable, organic food be damned I was saying as I bought a 12 pack of ramen noodles. I also chose to purchase food that would take little time to prepare which would allow me to spend my time doing other things I either found more enjoyable or important than eating. For example, I made it a point to buy a book and go out with friends using the money I saved. 

I don't know how long I'll continue (or be able to continue) eating on $12 a week, but it was an interesting an enlightening experience. I think it made me examine my spending habits and reflect on what they said about my values.