##The First Product I Ever Shipped##
**Posted Sat, 16 Mar 2013 00:17:00**

If you asked me what I wanted to be when I was nine, I would have told you I wanted to be a Computer Engineer. Fueled by the fact that when I was younger my family didn’t own a computer (in fact to this day my parents have never bought a computer of their own), my curiosity towards computers grew the more exposure I had to them.

Eventually I earned enough money from the lawn service business I started in Middle School to buy my own laptop before entering High School (funny side note - I remember agonizing over whether to buy a laptop or a desktop  - that was a major decision just a few years back!). Over time, the same entrepreneurial spirit that made me realize I could make money mowing people’s lawns, led me to the revelation that the software I wrote could go beyond silly games or using AppleScript to make my mom’s iBook say naughty words. It could, in fact, actually help people.

The first program I made that was actually useful to someone, in other words the first product I ever shipped, was a super simple and rudimentary punch card application. Written in C# with WinForms, my punch card application (now forever lost to the ether), was designed because my dad (who at the time was managing a bike shop) constantly complained about having to manually enter his employee’s time cards into an Excel worksheet. My program allowed employees to punch in, out, and then neatly exported the results to an Excel worksheet.

At the time I knew enough to realize what I had built was not a professional solution, and in fact I didn’t try to persuade my father to use it because I had very little confidence in my code. However, looking back on it, I’m actually impressed that my 14 year old self (with very little experience other than writing the simple Hello World programs and a basic guessing game) was able to pull off something like I did.

Even though I lost the executable, I still have basic sketches of the UI and workflow that I drew in my “idea book" (a big blue artist sketchbook a family friend gave to me) for the program. Somehow, as a 14 year old, I envisioned this program to be run on a touchscreen computer, so I made the buttons large. On the margins of the sketches, I wrote down how many “clicks" it took a user to get something done. Hilariously, since I couldn’t figure out how to make a window change it’s UI, and instead had to resort to opening a new window for each screen I wanted to create, I scribbled down how that was a major constraint and how it was forcing me to simplify things even more!

I hope that in the future, I’ll be able to look back and see the trend of learning continue. I hope to one day laugh and look back at how little I know now, but still be proud of the work I did.