##It Looks Good on a Resume##
**Posted Thu, 12 Jul 2012 08:18:00**

Being a student at Purdue University, I hear the phrases ...It looks good on a resume!“, ...Great resume builder“, ...Employers love to see students who do this!“, or something along those lines a lot. Perhaps it's because of the school's strong connections to industry that I am constantly hearing these things, but never-the-less it's getting irritating.

It's getting irritating for a couple reasons. First is that they're advocating good resumes for shallow reasons. Many of these professors advocating the Purdue Center for Career Opportunity office are doing so to key students in on a way they get a leg up on their competition for Internships, Co-Ops, and post-graduation jobs. That'd be fine if they were encouraging students to earn Internship and Co-Op positions so they can be better prepared to change the world, make an impact, etc. but instead they encourage students to do those things so they can make more money upon graduation. I haven't head a professor talk about Co-Op students and not mention the fact that Co-Ops make roughly 10% more per year than non-Co-Op students. Unfortunately it's that statistic that is emphasized the most.

Another reason is that student organizations like PESC (Purdue Engineering Student Council) and EPICS (Engineering Projects In Community Service) use the phrase in their recruiting drives. I mean they seriously beat it over the head that their club ...Looks good on a resume!“ By the end of an information session, potential members don't hear or see the cool things these clubs do, instead they just remember that ...it looks good on a resume“. Consequently, many of these clubs are full of people who don't care about what they're working on and instead are just there to put it on their resume.

Logically, it's not impossible to see that this lack of passion could easily carry over from the club environment to a work environment. Having never worked in an environment lacking passion for what we're working on I really can't comment on dispassionate workplaces. However, I can speculate that the lack of passion, caring, and motivation might may have all started at a university level with the enthusiastic phrase ...It looks good on a resume!“
