## Market Opportunities ##
**Posted Thu, 04 Jul 2013 16:43:28**

Africa and bioinformatics. Those are the two next markets where software and services can really make a major impact. At first glance, it seems the two markets would have opposite needs because the people in these markets are on polar opposite sides of a socioeconomic spectrum.

In one case, you have a continent with much of it’s population that’s emerging from a tribal culture and into the 21st century. It’s almost as if much of the continent is simply skipping modernity and the enlightenment and being exposed to all the technological innovations of the 21st century. The problems they face are incredibly diverse as they span from clean water to fair elections and high speed internet access. On the other end of the spectrum, are primarily highly educated westerners who’ve spent their entire adult life in academia. Their daily problems and anxieties are minor inconveniences compared to the majority of the world.

However, I’ve always thought the farther from center you are on any spectrum, the closer to the other side you get in some regards. This principle can been seen here too. The one common thread that’s shared by Africa and the bioinformatics field is lack of access.

In order to be competitive in the 21st century, Africa will need to have Internet access so the continent’s population can have access to information the rest of the world has. The more Internet access Africans have the better they can [hold their governments accountable](http://whiteafrican.com/2013/03/12/kenyas-2013-iebc-election-tech-problems/) (unfortunately this initiative failed), [empower the weak](http://www.lracrisistracker.com/), and [create market opportunities](http://www.microsoft.com/africa/4afrika/). The issue is that most countries in Africa just don’t have the infrastructure that’s necessary to make something these things happen. Like I said they’ve skipped modernity and the enlightenment so their society simply doesn’t have the “in house" talent required to make those sorts of technological innovations nor do their governments have the power to make Internet infrastructure a priority.

But that’s where the market opportunity emerges. By providing Africa with cheap  and decentralized Internet access, you could improve life on the continent by orders of magnitude. When I say decentralized I mean a meshwork. I think an African meshwork would take advantage of the growing phone space as well as eliminate the need for government backing (as well as eliminating the chance of government spying). Internet cafes and cell phone charging stations could be turned into supernodes on the network in an effort to counter the inherent issue of constant nodal connectivity (mobile phones simply can’t be connected to the meshwork all the time - battery life issues).

Now for the bioinformatics field, it’s important to realize connectivity and infrastructure aren’t an issue at all. In fact, the researchers in the bioinformatics community are very much connected as they have access to a whole slew of university super computers with unimaginable power. Rather, their access issue is getting access to talent that knows how to properly utilize these resources.

As an undergraduate researcher for the [Kihara Lab](http://www.kiharalab.org/) at Purdue, I saw this access problem first hand. Most of my fellow researchers were CS Majors/Ph.D candidates who had a Bachelor’s degree in Biology. Interestingly, for many of them, their first exposure with (serious) programming was in their graduate program. Effectively, many of the researchers had less than two years of experience writing software.

I came into the group with relatively no Biology-related experience or coursework, but I knew that my experience in the tech industry would be of great use to the lab. Sure enough, it was, as I was able to optimize how they stored some of the data for their computational experiments by moving it into a MySQL database and out of the *literally* gigabytes of text files.

While making the move from text files to a relational database would seem obvious to anyone who’s remotely familiar with web services/technologies, for someone who’s only programming experience has come from a classroom, the move isn’t so obvious (they probably never heard of a relational database before!). However, once you make them aware of the technology, you’ve opened all sorts of doors for them. They now have an entirely new set of tools they can use to push their research forward.

I’ve head similar stories from friends who also work on bioinformatics (In one case my friend’s lab was using a 100GB Excel file to store all their results. The file was so big that the group kept buying more powerful computers that were just used to open the file - he migrated that all into a database and made a web based interface for the group so anyone could access it).

So even though there’s a seemingly major difference between the problems Africa faces and those of bioinformatics researchers, the reality is that the differences are smaller than you’d think.